schemeName: Pradhan Mantri Uchchatar Shiksha Protsahan (PM-USP) Central Sector Scheme of Scholarship for College and University students

Keywords: College, Financial Assistance, Scholarship Student, University

Details:
"Pradhan Mantri Uchchatar Shiksha Protsahan (PM-USP) Central Sector Scheme of Scholarship for College and University Students" is a Scholarship Scheme by the Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education. The primary objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to meritorious students from poor families to meet a part of their day-to-day expenses while pursuing higher studies. The scholarships are awarded based on the results of the Higher Secondary/ Class 12th Board Examination. A maximum of 82,000 fresh scholarships per annum are provided for pursuing Graduate/ Postgraduate degrees in colleges and universities and for professional courses, such as Medical, Engineering etc.
﻿
"Pradhan Mantri Uchchatar Shiksha Protsahan (PM-USP) Central Sector Scheme of Scholarship for College and University Students" is a Scholarship Scheme by the Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education. The primary objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to meritorious students from poor families to meet a part of their day-to-day expenses while pursuing higher studies. The scholarships are awarded based on the results of the Higher Secondary/ Class 12th Board Examination. A maximum of 82,000 fresh scholarships per annum are provided for pursuing Graduate/ Postgraduate degrees in colleges and universities and for professional courses, such as Medical, Engineering etc.
Rate of Scholarship
₹12,000/-per annum at the Graduation level for the first three years of College and University courses.
₹20,000 per annum at the Post-graduation level.
₹20,000/-per annum in the 4th and 5th year to the Students pursuing professional courses, in case, where the duration of the course is five (5) years/Integrated course.
Students pursuing technical courses such as B.Tech, B.Engg. will get scholarship up to graduation level only i.e. ₹12,000 p.a. for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd year and ₹20,000 in the 4th year.
The scholarship will be disbursed directly into the Aadhar seeded bank accounts of the beneficiaries through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT).
The applicant must be above the 80th percentile of successful candidates in the relevant stream from the respective Board of Examination in Class 12th of 10+2 pattern or equivalent.
The applicant must be pursuing regular degree courses.
The applicant must be pursuing courses at colleges/ institutions recognized by the All India Council for Technical Education and the respective Regulatory Bodies concerned.
The gross parental/ family income of the applicant should not exceed ₹4,50,000/- per annum.
For renewal of scholarship in each year of study, besides getting at least 50% marks in the Annual Examination, maintenance of adequate attendance should be at least 75%.
The students are required to have Aadhaar seeded bank accounts opened in their name.
Students who are pursuing correspondence or distance mode or pursuing Diploma courses are not eligible.
Students who are already availing the benefit from any other scholarship schemes including State-run scholarship schemes/ fee waiver & reimbursement schemes are not eligible.

